
Summary

    Prior breaking down the 23-week sale records into the weekly cohorts analysis, the seasonality chart suggests that week 6, 16, and 19 have a relatively low combined retention rate as well as order values. This could be attributed to factors such as reduction in marketing expenses, increase of competition, change of customer preferences,etc. We need more data to substantiate any of theses claims. After the weekly cohorts analysis, we validate that all cohort groups (based on their first order) have biggest drop on week 7, 16 and decay after week 19. On the contrary, cohort groups performance above the average during the week 5, 6, 9, 10, and 14 that were observed a two-digits retention rates.

    In term of a increase of basis points or average order value (AOV), which is the total revenue/total order, implementing a basis points increase is easier to to achieve. We will know the projected revenue impact directly. An increase in 3+ order retention of 500 basis points will generate revenue of \$6983.93 * 0.05 = \\$349 on the existing customers who placed order more than 3 orders. In my past experience, I adapted this strategy in a short-term basis to generate immediate cash flow that will contribute on the financial report.

    On the other hand, since there is a transaction cost associated with each order, increasing your AOV is a way to drive direct revenue and increase your profits, as the customer is already buying from your store. It is reasonable to believe that the an increase in 3+ order average order value of \$3 will generate a higher value than the basis points increase in a long run. For example, the current AVO is \\$8.98. To increase of \$3 on the AVO, (\\$8.98 +$3 ) *777 - \\$6983.93 = \$2331 could be obtained assuming the orders are unchanged . This needs to be pushed the price increase on the products or do more cross selling. In my previous experience, the crossing selling, volume discounts, and coupons generate a higher customer loyalty and profit in a long term. A great way to implement the AOV strategies is to segment out your customer base into multiple groups (eg. small vs. big spenders, low vs. high frequency shoppers) depending on purchase history and target each group with different offers. Again, with so many different possibilities for improving your AOV, you will need to construct a methodical series of A/B tests that allow you to gather enough data for each test to optimize for conversion.

    Since we already know the retention rate of the customer, I need the customer margin tables and marketing expenses table to calculate the Customer Lifetime Value and the cost per acquisition. In most cases first time buyers are 6-8 times more expensive to acquire than reselling to a customer who has already bought from you. When we know the worth of one customer, it is easier to target the spend on marketing. We aim to either increase the revenue and reduce the marketing expenses in the standpoint of financial control.

    a. profit margin per customer = Average purchase Number of purchases per year Average profit margin pct

    b. Customer Lifetime Value = profit margin per customer * (retention rate / (1+ discount rate - retention rate) )

    c. the marketing expense aims to validate the effectiveness of the marketing campaigns across various platforms. It is essential to track the ROI for both customer acquisition and customer retention. Retention often relies on far less price sensitivity from customers so that the long-term costs are recouped through sales. Therefore, I will work on the lifetime value and cost per acquisition to optimize a balance in financial return and operating expenses in my next step.

